README.md, before:

#  Audio Deepfake Detection: Spectral Forensics

> A Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) designed to detect AI-synthesized speech by analyzing high-frequency spectral artifacts.

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.10-blue)](https://python.org)
[![PyTorch](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-2.0-red)](https://pytorch.org)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green)](LICENSE)

##  The Problem
Modern TTS models (like ElevenLabs, Vall-E) generate hyper-realistic audio, but they often leave behind mathematical "scars" (artifacts) in the frequency domain that are invisible to the human ear but visible in **Mel-Spectrograms**.

##  Solution Architecture
* **Input:** Raw Audio (.flac/.wav)
* **Preprocessing:** Conversion to Mel-Spectrograms (128x64) using `librosa`.
* **Model:** Custom 3-Layer CNN (`ArtifactHunter`) optimized for texture detection.
* **Dataset:** ASVspoof 2019 (Logical Access Subset).

##  Results
* **Accuracy:** 95% on unseen test set (subset).
* **Key Insight:** Synthetic audio exhibits distinct "checkerboard" patterns above 4kHz due to vocoder upsampling.

##  How to Run
1. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt

Commit message:

Revise README for AI Audio Detection System
Updated project title, research focus, and added usage instructions.

README.md, after:

#  AI Audio Detection System (Deepfake Forensics)

> A Spectral Forensics system that detects AI-synthesized speech by analyzing high-frequency artifacts in Mel-Spectrograms.

[![Open In Kaggle](https://kaggle.com/static/images/open-in-kaggle.svg)](LINK_TO_YOUR_KAGGLE_NOTEBOOK_IF_PUBLIC)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.10-blue)](https://python.org)
[![PyTorch](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-2.0-red)](https://pytorch.org)

##  The Research
Voice cloning models (like ElevenLabs, Vall-E) are becoming indistinguishable from human speech. However, they often introduce **spectral artifacts**—unnatural pixel patterns in the frequency domain—due to vocoder upsampling.

This project implements a **Custom CNN (ArtifactHunter)** to detect these patterns.

##  Key Results
We trained on the **ASVspoof 2019 Logical Access** dataset (subset) and achieved high detection accuracy.

### 1. Detection Performance
The model distinguishes between Real and Spoofed audio with minimal False Positives.
![Confusion Matrix](results/confusion_matrix.png)

## How to Use
1. Clone this repository.
2. Install dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
3. Open `ai-audio-detection-system.ipynb` in Jupyter Lab, VS Code, or Google Colab.
4. Run all cells to download the sample data and train the model.

##  Tech Stack
* **Analysis:** Librosa, NumPy, Matplotlib
* **Deep Learning:** PyTorch, CNNs
* **Data:** ASVspoof 2019
